# Kickstarter-analysis
An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns-
This Project was an analysis using a data table of over 4000 rows of different kickstarters around the world. Inside the file, you will see the data table, pivot tables of the information, statistical analysis of the kickstarters, VLOOKUPs of different kickstarters Louise (for whom we were doing the analysis for) wanted to benchmark, multitude of mean, median, mode, StDEV.P, QUARTILE.EXC, and box and whisker plot of the goals and pledges promised for the different kickstarters.
# Challenge
Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals and Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date: From the data I uncovered from the Kickstarter Data, I am confident that the goal amounts between $1000 to $4999 had the most successful kickstarter projects at 387 showing that the goals of $1000 to $4999 were 73% successful compared to the 27% failed. The smaller goals from $0-$4999 dilutes the other factors as there are a huge amount of successes compared to failures and the total successful goals in the data set shows 694 compared to the 353 failed. The rest of the goal categories are skewed toward failures as less people were able to invest enough to get them to reach their goals.As the goal amounts got higher, the projects dramatically decreased from 387 to 94 which is a 76% decrease from projects between $1000 to $4999 to projects from $5000 to $9999. Every other higher goal following the $5000 to $9999 range decreases (besides a select few which increased by 1 or 2) probably due to the higher amount of capital needed to be raised for the higher goal amounts. From the goal amounts of $10000+ the average successful to failed ratio is 72:86 (successful:failed) which is not a good indicator for higher amount goals to be met. 72/158 is a 46% successful completion rate for the goals from 10000-50000+ which is an indicator that less than half of projects in that range will usually get successfully met with the right amount of capital to move forward. Strictly from the data, the goals with the smallest amount of money needed had a 76% success rate but dropped every higher amount after that all the way to a 13% success rate at greater than or equal to $50000. This could point to a variety of factors, one of them being the current economical conditions during these times or could factor into the fact that people do not want to increase their amount of cash investments toward the project goals of $10000 and more. I suggest Louise use VLOOKUPs to benchmark her numbers to the other theater plays to see how her goals match up to theirs. 
When looking at the THEATER category in the pivot table, it is showing that from 2010 to 2013, there were only 26 kickstarters that were successful but none were shown to have failed. From 2014 to 2017, there were 839 total successful kickstarter projects with 493 kickstarter projects being failures to garner enough capital to meet the monetary goals. So when only filtering for theater the success rate is 63% and failure rate is 37%; theater's kickstarters (the parent category) seem to be highly successful in meeting their monetary goals. Overall, both plays at a 66% success rate and theater at a 63% success rate indicate that both are fairly successful in meeting their goals. (As a Disclaimer, I had filtered Theater, the Parent Category, in the pivot table and both theater and plays in the CountIFS function in the original data set "Kickstarter Data" as the instructions said).
